{
  "date": "2021-02-01",
  "keywords": [
    "e57 file",
    "e57 file format",
    "what is an e57 file",
    "file",
    "e57 example",
    "e57 file extension",
    "extension",
    "format"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "description": "Learn about E57 file format and APIs that can open and create E57 files.",
  "title": "E57 - Lidar Point Cloud Data Format",
  "linktitle": "E57",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "parent": "3d",
      "identifier": "3d-e57"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2021-02-01"
}

## What is an E57 file?

A file with .e57 extension is a compact, vendor-neutral file format that is used for storing and exchange of three-dimensional (3D) imaging data such as point clouds, images, and metadata. Such data is often created with systems such as laser scanners. It was developed by the Data Interoperability sub-committee of the ATSM E57 Committee on 3D Imaging Systems.  E57 is open source and stores 3D point data, its attributes (such as color and intensity), and 2D imagery as captured by the 3D imaging system.

## E57 File Format

The E57 file format specifications are available at ATSM website and can be referred to for developer's reference. The concept paper and technical details of E57 file format are available as reference material by [Daniel Huber](https://paulbourke.net/dataformats/e57/2011-huber-e57-v3.pdf). The data in an E57 file is saved in a XML based hierarchical tree structure as shown in following image. At low level, the E57 files are saved as compressed binary files to make the file size compact.

### E57 File Structure

The structure of an E57 file is as shown in the following table.

| File Structure|
---|
|Header|
|Binary section (points)|
|Binary section (points)|
|...|
|...|
|Binary section (image)|
|XML section|

### E57 Header

The  E57 header  is  a small,   48-byte   binary structure   that   contains   critical   file-level information, such as the version number and the location of the XML section. It can be progamatically represented as follow.

```
struct E57FileHeader {
    char        fileSignature[8];
    uint32_t    majorVersion;
    uint32_t    minorVersion;
    uint64_t    filePhysicalLength;
    uint64_t    xmlPhysicalOffset;
    uint64_t    xmlLogicalLength;
    uint64_t    pageSize;
}
```

### XML Hierarchy

The XML section of an E57 file describes the tree hierarchy using a subset of standard XML. This is based on eight E57 element types where each element is build up using a set of core building blocks. Five of these E57 elements are terminal types and three of these are non-terminal.

#### Terminal Types

`Integer` - signed integer up to 63 bits in size

`Float` - stores a single or double precision floating point number in IEEE 754-1985format

`ScaledInteger` - Stores  a  number  with  a  fractional  part  as  an  integer  along  with  a  scale  and  offset

`String` - Stores text data as UTF-8 encoded and supports international characters

`Blob` - Stores  an  opaque  block  of  binary  data  that  is  interpreted  by  the  reader  depending  on  the  context.

#### Non-Terminal Types

`Structure` - Contains an unordered set of E57 elements of any type. An E57 structure is analogous to a structure in the C programming language.

`Vector` - Contains an ordered list of substantially identically typed items. A flag in the element allows the items to be restricted to be exactly identically typed if desired.

`CompressedVector` - Contains  an  ordered  list  of  identically  typed  items,  which  are  compressed  in  binary format.As with the Blob data type, the representation of a CompressedVector is divided into an XML portion and a binary portion.

## Reference

 * [libE57](http://www.libe57.org/)
 * [ASTM E57 Reader/Writer](https://docs.safe.com/fme/html/FME_Desktop_Documentation/FME_ReadersWriters/e57/e57.htm#:~:text=Overview,are%20structured%20as%20a%20tree.)
