{
  "date" : "2022-06-13",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "description" : "Your file format guide to know what is a Lotus 123 12M file and APIs that can create and open 12M file.",
  "title" : "12M File Format - Lotus 1-2-3 SmartMaster File",
  "linktitle" : "12M",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "parent" : "spreadsheet"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2022-06-13"
}

## What is a Lotus 12M file?

A 12M file is a Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet file that contains pre-designed spreadsheet formats. It was developed by Lotus Development Corporation and was part of IBM Lotus SmartSuite. The pre-defined spreadsheet in the 12M file can be used for collection of data that is utilized to create various type of data files such as financial statements, budgets, and forecasts. Being like any other spreadsheet, 12M file format supports formulas, formatting, and print ranges. [Lotus 123](/spreadsheet/123/) is another popular Lotus Spreadsheet file format.

## Lotus 12M File Format - More Information

When IBM acquired Lotus Development Corporation in 1995, all the proprietary file formats supported by Lotus 1-2-3 also became part of IBM Lotus SmartSuite. By then, it was the popular spreadsheet program that was primarily used. The popular features it supported were spreadsheet functions, creating charts and graphs, and data storage and management operations.

With the launch of Microsoft Excel, Lotus 1-2-3 popularity reduced significantly and eventually it was overtaken by Microsoft Excel. It was officially discontinued in 2013 and its file formats are also no more supported.

## References

* [Lotus 1-2-3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lotus_1-2-3)
* [Lotus 1-2-3 by ArchiveTeam](http://justsolve.archiveteam.org/wiki/Lotus_1-2-3)
