{
  "date": "2023-05-08",
  "keywords": [
    "c3 file",
    "what is a c3 file",
    "what is the format of c3 file",
    "what are the features of c3 programming language",
    "how to open a c3 file",
    "file",
    "c3 file extension",
    "extension"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "title": "C3 File Format - C3 Source Code",
  "description": "Learn about C3 format and APIs that can create and open C3 files.",
  "linktitle": "C3",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "identifier": "programming-c3",
      "parent": "programming"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2023-05-08"
}

## What is a C3 file?
A C3 file contains source code written in C3 programming language. C3 is an experimental programming language which aims to combine best features of C++ and Python. 

C3 source code files can be created using text editor e.g. Notepad or Sublime Text. They can be edited and compiled using the C3 compiler which translates C3 source code into executable code that can be run on computer. The C3 compiler generates machine code that can run directly on CPU providing good performance.

C3 source code files can contain variety of programming constructs including functions, classes, variables, loops and conditionals. C3 also includes number of built-in data types such as integers, floating-point numbers and strings.

To compile C3 source code file, you'll need to have C3 compiler installed on your computer. Once the compiler is installed, you can run it from command line and specify the location of source code file you want to compile. The compiler will generate an executable file that you can then run on your computer.

## What is the format of C3 file?

C3 source code files are plain text files, their format follows the rules of plain text files, with each line containing a sequence of characters that make up the code. C3 code follows a syntax that is similar to C++ and Python. C3 source code files typically contain functions, classes, variables, loops, conditionals, and other programming constructs. The code in C3 file is organized into series of statements with each statement typically occupying a single line of the file.

## What are the features of C3 programming language?

Some of the features of C3 programming language are 

- Simplicity
- Strong typing
- Object-oriented programming
- Generics
- Garbage collection
- Meta-programming
- Interoperability

## How to open a C3 file?

You will need a text editor or an integrated development environment (IDE) to open C3 file. Some popular options include Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, Atom and IntelliJ IDEA.

## References
* [C3 - System Programming Language](https://c3-lang.org/)
