{
  "date" : "2024-02-01",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "F95 File - Fortran 95 Source Code File - What is .f95 file and how to open it?",
  "description" : "Learn about Fortran 95 Source Code File and how to open it.",
  "linktitle" : "F95",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "identifier" : "programming-en-f95",
      "parent" : "programming"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2024-02-01"
}

## What is an F95 file?

A file with ".f95" extension typically indicates that it is a Fortran 95 source code file. Fortran is a general-purpose, imperative programming language that is particularly well-suited for numerical and scientific computing. Fortran 95 is an enhanced version of Fortran 90, introducing several new features and improvements.

Fortran source code files typically contain program instructions written in Fortran programming language; if you have a file with ".f95" extension, it is likely meant to be compiled using a Fortran compiler; compilation is the process of translating human-readable source code into machine-readable binary code that can be executed by a computer.

## How to open F95 file?

If you want to work with or run program in ".f95" file, you will need a Fortran compiler; popular Fortran compilers include GNU Fortran (gfortran), Intel Fortran Compiler (ifort), and others. You can compile and run Fortran programs using appropriate commands provided by compiler.

For example, if you have gfortran installed, you can use the following commands in terminal to compile and run a Fortran program:

```
# Compile the Fortran program
gfortran -o my_program my_program.f95

# Run the compiled program
./my_program
```

If you only want to view the contents of F95 file, it is a plain text file, so you can open it with any text editor.

## References
* [GNU Fortran](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Fortran)
