{
  "date": "2021-08-05",
  "keywords": [
    "g4",
    "g4 file",
    "g4 file extension",
    "g4 file format",
    "antlr",
    "antlr language",
    "programming"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Muhammad Umar"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "description": "Learn about G4 file format and APIs that can create and open G4 files.",
  "title": "G4 - ANTLR Code File",
  "linktitle": "G4",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "parent": "programming",
      "identifier": "programming-g4"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2021-08-05"
}

## What is a G4 file? 
The file with .g4 extension contains the grammer for a parser called ANTLR 4. The ANTLR 4 runtime is required to recognize the G4 file. After installation the parsing tool recognize the G4 content as a language which need to be translated in a typical language. Once the parser works it generates the code for the target programming languages such as, Java, C++ or c#. Therefore, it is important to have an ANTLR runtime installed to let the output or generated code work.

## G4 file format
G4 file format is relevant to the ANTLR 4 tool which is a programming parser. The G4 file format is designed to keep the grammer for ANTLR which stands for ANother Tool for Language Recognition, is a parser generator.  ANTLR takes as input a G4 file which containing a grammar that specifies a language and generates as output source code for a recognizer of that language. The ANTLR 3 supported generating code in the programming languages JavaScript, Ada95, ActionScript, C, C#, Java, Perl, Objective-C, Ruby, Python and Standard ML, the current version only targets Java, JavaScript, C#, C++, Python, Swift, and Go.

### Example
Here is a simple example which shows how a grammer is contained in a G4 file. put the following grammar inside file Hello.g4 and save it in a temp directory

```
// Define a grammar called Hello
grammar Hello;
r  : 'hello' ID ;         // match keyword hello followed by an identifier
ID : [a-z]+ ;             // match lower-case identifiers
WS : [ \t\r\n]+ -> skip ; // skip spaces, tabs, newlines
```
Then you can run ANTLR like this"

```
$ cd /tmp
$ antlr4 Hello.g4
$ javac Hello*.java
```



## References ##

- [ANTLR - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANTLR)
