---
date: 2022-05-09
author:
  display_name: Kashif Iqbal
draft: false
toc: true
title: PYD File Format - Python Dynamic Module
linktitle: PYD
description: Learn about PYD file format and APIs that can create and open PYD files.
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "programming"
lastmod: 2022-05-09
---

## What is a PYD file?

A PYD file is a dynamic link library written in Python that can be run by other Python code at run time. It contains one or more Python modules that facilitates code reuse and provides module architecture for writing applications. PYD files can be created and saved with .pyd extension e.g. helloworld.pyd. Application developers can use import statement to include the PYD modules in their applications. PYD files can be opened with Python Software Foundation Python that is available for Windows, Mac and Linux OS.

## PYD File Format - More Information

PYD files are written in Python programming language and are generated by compiling the Python code.

## Difference between PY and PYD  File Formats

A [PY](/programming/py/) file contains source code that is executed as it is and can not be included as a reusable code in other Python applications. However, a PYD file is a dynamically-linked library to be used on the Windows operating system.

## How to Create PYD File?

A PYD file can be created by creating a module with a name e.g. exmaple.pyd. This module will contain all the functionality in the form of one or more functions e.g. PyMod_example(). When the program includes this library and calls it, it can be done by importing the module and the function PyMod_example() will run.

## References ##

 * [Creating Python Extensions in C/C++](https://sebsauvage.net/python/mingw.html)
 * [Python (programming language) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python_(programming_language))
