{
  "date" : "2022-02-08",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "description":"Learn about CSD Steam Game Data Backup File format and APIs.",
  "title" : "CSD File Format - Steam Game Data Backup File",
  "linktitle" : "CSD",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "identifier": "game-csd",
      "parent" : "game"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2022-02-08"
}

## What is a CSD file?

A CSD file is a game backup file generated by the gaming service **Steam** that lets users downloading and managing **Valve** games. It contains the backup data related to games that can be used to restores a deleted game. Steam is only able to restore game from a CSD file if the game was completed downloaded, installed and patched through Steam. In order to restore the game from CSD file, use the option of Steam → Backup and Restore Gamesteam and select the file.

## CSD File Format - More Information

The internal structure of CSD file format is not available publicly and its file format specifications are not available for developer's reference. CSD files are accompanied by the CSM and ISS files which are also Steam game file formats.

### Where to Find Steam Backup Files?

The entire Steam backup files can be found at the following locations:

 * C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\<game name>\ :
 * \cfg\ - Custom configurations and configuration scripts
 * \downloads\ - Custom content for multiplayer games
 * \maps\ - Custom maps which have been installed or downloaded during multiplayer games
 * \materials\ - Custom textures and skins
 * \SAVE\ - Single-player saved games

However, the location of third party created games can be different and is determined by the game's developer.

### Restoring from CSD Backup File

Install Steam and log in to the correct Steam account (see Installing Steam for further instructions)
 * Launch Steam
 * Click on "Steam" in the upper left corner of the Steam application
 * Select "Backup and restore games..."
 * Select "Restore a previous backup"
 * Browse to the location of the game's backup files
 * Continue through the Steam windows to install the necessary games.

## References

 * [Using the Steam Backup Feature](https://help.steampowered.com/en/faqs/view/4593-5CB7-DC3C-64F0)
