{
  "date": "2023-06-21",
  "keywords": [
    "meta",
    "meta file",
    "what is a meta file",
    "how to open meta file",
    "Exient XGS Engine",
    "file",
    "meta file extension",
    "extension"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "title": "META File Format - Exient Metadata File",
  "description": "Learn about META format and APIs that can create and open META files.",
  "linktitle": "META",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "identifier": "game-meta",
      "parent": "game"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2023-06-21"
}

## What is a META file?

META file contains game’s data by various games utilizing Exient XGS Engine such as Angry Birds Go! or Angry Birds Transformers. The META file captures and retains information about to particular aspects of the game such as crash logs or item logs.

META files are automatically generated by game and are not intended for user modification or direct access. If META file is dedicated to logging game crashes, it will typically be named "crashes.meta." Similarly, if META file is utilized for logging item-related information, it will follow naming convention of "XXX.xml.meta," where "XXX" represents descriptive identifier for specific type of items being logged.

## Exient XGS Engine

Exient Entertainment created the Exient XGS Engine, a game engine. It is a software framework made to make the process of making and developing video games easier. It offers programmers a variety of tools, libraries, and functions to speed up the game-making process.

A variety of features and abilities provided by the Exient XGS Engine make it easier to create games on a variety of platforms, including PCs, consoles, and mobile devices. These functions frequently consist of producing visuals, simulating physics, managing audio, handling input, having networking capabilities, and other things.

## How to open META file?

The following programs can open META files related to game utilizing Exient XGS Engine 

- Rovio Angry Birds Transformers
- Rovio Angry Birds Go!

## References
* [Exient Entertainment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exient_Entertainment)
