{
  "date" : "2024-02-15",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "Z64 File - Nintendo 64 Game ROM - What is .z64 file and how to open it?",
  "description" : "Learn about Z64 Nintendo 64 Game ROM File and how to open it.",
  "linktitle" : "Z64",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "identifier" : "game-en-z64",
      "parent" : "game"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2024-02-15"
}

## What is a Z64 file?

A Z64 file extension typically denotes a ROM image file for Nintendo 64 (N64) games. These files contain a copy of data from a Nintendo 64 game cartridge, allowing users to play the game on emulators or to transfer it to various devices for gaming purposes.

Z64 ROM image is essentially a digital copy of the game data stored on cartridge, including all the game code, graphics, audio, and other assets required to run the game. The file format typically represents the data in a format suitable for emulation on various platforms, allowing users to play game on computers, smartphones, and other devices using N64 emulation software.

## How to open a Z64 file

You can open Z64 file using variety of emulators. Here are some popular N64 emulators for different platforms:

1.  **Project64**: Project64 is one of most popular N64 emulators for Windows. It offers a user-friendly interface and good compatibility with a wide range of N64 games.
    
2.  **Mupen64Plus**: Mupen64Plus is a highly compatible N64 emulator available for multiple platforms including Windows, macOS, Linux, and Android. It offers both a command-line interface and a GUI front-end called M64Py.
    
3.  **RetroArch**: RetroArch is a versatile emulator that supports multiple gaming consoles, including N64. It's available for various platforms including Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, iOS, and more. RetroArch uses cores (emulator engines) to run different systems, and for N64 emulation, it often utilizes Mupen64Plus core.
    
4.  **BizHawk**: BizHawk is primarily a multi-system emulator that focuses on accuracy and tool-assisted speedruns. It supports N64 emulation and is available for Windows.
    
5.  **Nemu64**: Nemu64 is an older N64 emulator for Windows. While it may not be as actively developed as some other emulators, it can still run many N64 games.
    
6.  **OpenEmu**: OpenEmu is a multi-system emulator for macOS that supports N64 emulation through Mupen64Plus core.
    
7.  **MegaN64**: MegaN64 is an N64 emulator for Android devices. It is based on Mupen64Plus core and offers decent compatibility and performance on many Android devices.

## References
* [Nintendo 64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nintendo_64)
