{
  "date" : "2021-03-03",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Sami Cheema"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "H264 - Advanced Video Coding",
  "description":"H264 file format and APIs that can create and open H264 files.",
  "linktitle" : "H264",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "parent" : "video"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2021-03-03"
}


## What is an H264 file?

The file extension H264 is used when mentioning an H.264 encoded video file or as digital video compression. As a consequence of the high popularity of this video compression format, it can be used for video recording and also compresses and distributes the video. MPEG-2 video is compressed half as much by H.264 to deliver the same high-quality video. Now you can enjoy HD video without compromising speed or performance. H.264 also delivers high-quality video for streaming at very low bit rates, in addition to its efficient encoding of HD video. This is one of the most used video formats. The main objective of making the H264 file format was to develop something that might be ready to provide a very top-quality video with lower bit rates.


## Technical Features of H264
 
 *	It’s referred to as a method of video compression.
 *	For storage and playing back video formats, H.264 is measured as the standard
 *	The success of the format is all dependable on the usability which is up to a resolution of 4K (4092 x 2160 pixels)
 *	The use of H.264 ranges from YouTube and TV sets to professional video productions.
 *	The video format is an open standard but cannot be used without a license fee that should be paid to the MPEG-LA consortium.
 *	The encoder of H264 can be selected from a variety of compression tools, making it suitable for different kinds of applications.
 *	The type of format provisions a wide range of applications. These are only limited by defined variables of the info stream having increased resolution or frame rate. The higher the bit rate of the respective video, the upper the amount is.
 
 
## Application of H.264

H.264 oﬀers greater flexibility in terms of compression and communication support. This is the reason why it's being adopted by a wide range of applications, including:

 *  Telecasting
 *	Videos downloaded from iTunes
 *	Mobile TV broadcasting
 *	Videoconference
 *	YouTube
 *	Pay TV 
 *	HDTV broadcasting and cinematic applications 
 *	CCTV and video surveillance
 *	Nowadays, many DSLRs store video as H.264 in QuickTime MOV containers

 
## How to Open/Play H264 files?

The following is the list of programs that support H264 files. Files with H264 suffixes are often copied to any mobile device or system platform, but it’s not going to be possible to open them properly on a track system.

 *  Windows Media Player
 *  VLC Media Player
 *  VideoStudio Pro
 *  QuickTime Player
 *  Power DVD
 *  MPlayer
 *  Miro Video Converter
 *  Media Coder
 *  DashEncoder
 *  HDConvertTox
 *  Creator NXT Pro
 *  Freemake Video Converter

## References

 * [Vcodex](https://www.vcodex.com/an-overview-of-h264-advanced-video-coding/)
 * [BlackBox](https://www.blackbox.co.uk/gb-gb/page/38313/Resources/Technical-Resources/Black-Box-Explains/Multimedia/What-is-H264-video-encoding)
 * [StreamingMedia](https://www.streamingmedia.com/Articles/ReadArticle.aspx?ArticleID=74735)
