{
  "date": "2021-03-05",
  "keywords": [
    "H265",
    "File",
    "Extension",
    "File Format",
    "Video Format",
    "HEVC",
    "H.265",
    "JCT-VC"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Sami Cheema"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "title": "H265 - High Efficiency Video Codec",
  "description": "Learn about H265 file format and APIs that can create and open H265 files.",
  "linktitle": "H265",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "parent": "video",
      "identifier": "video-h265"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2021-03-27"
}


## What is an H265 file?

H.265 is also known as HEVC (High-Efficiency Video Coding) is a successor to H.264. It is the newest video compression standard that is said to double the data compression proportion as compare to H.264 with the same video quality. Video encoded with HEVC will uphold the high visual quality but at a smaller file size. It was developed in response to the increasing need for higher compression of moving pictures for different applications such as:

 * Streaming
 * Videoconferencing
 * Digital storage media
 * Telecasting
 
The main purpose behind developing H.265 was to enable the use of the coded video depiction in a flexible way for a wide variety of networks and with a high compression ability for an anticipated image or video quality.


## Technical Features of H265
 
 *	High quality and better compression ratio 
 *	Can easily be utilized in high-resolution movies like 2K or 4K.
 *	Having better adaptivity having extra coding modes 
 *	HEVC contains an in-loop deblocking filter, where the blocking items around the transform edges within the rebuilt picture are smoothed to enhance the picture quality and compression proficiency. 
 *	HEVC introduces a new filtering stage called the sample-adaptive offset (SAO) filter, which can offer both an impartial and development and enhancement in video quality.
 *	Useful in reducing the bandwidth with larger resolutions
 *	Potential to back resolutions of 8192 x 4320 pixels 
 *	Designed mainly for top resolution formats
 *	Intra coding in H265 allows 35 prediction modes 

 
## Applications of H.265

 *	Generic film, NTSC, PAL, Rec. 601, Rec. 709, Rec. 2020, Rec. 2100, SMPTE 170M, SMPTE 240M, sRGN, sYCC, and xvYCC are some of the different color spaces are being supported by H.265.
 *	Upcoming HDTV displays 
 
## Brief History

ITU-T Video Coding Expert Group (VCEG) progressed the formation of the successor to the H.264 in 2004, then in 2007 ISO/IEC Moving Picture Expert Group (MPEG) underway their drive to the same way. In 2010, the MPEG and VCEG teams cooperated on a joint Call for Proposals and formed the Joint Collaborative Team on Video Coding (JCT-VC) to advance the HEVC standard. On January 25, 2013, the technical content of HEVC was completed, and on April 13, 2013, it was officially professed as a standard. According to the development process, different versions of H.265 was established as follows:

 *	**2013** - The first version of the H.265 codec was released on April 13, 2013
 *	**2014** - The second version of the H.265 codec and was released on October 29, 2014
 *	**2015** - The third version of the H.265 codec was released on April 29, 2015
 *	**2016** - The fourth version of the H.265 codec was released on December 22, 2016
 
## Difference between H.264 and H.265

 *	The compression ratio of H.265 is twice that of H.264
 *	H.264 offers support for 16 x 16-pixel macroblocks whereas H.265 provides support for 64 x 64-pixel macroblocks
 *	Video compression is reliant on estimated motion between frames. H.265 bids considerable improvements in prediction motion compared to H.264
 *	The intraframe prediction function of H.265 is more vivid than H.264
 *	H.265 permits for 33 directions of motion while H.264 only offers nine directions of motion
 *	H.265 gears separate tiles and slices which are decoded self-reliantly
 *	H.265 offers provision for resolutions up to 8192 x 4320 pixels (including 8K UHD) while H.264 is not able to offer support for the same resolutions
 *	H.265 requires minimum bandwidth as compared to H.264 codecs. H.264 broadcasts 4K video in 32 Mbps internet speed whereas H.265 can easily do the equivalent in just 15mbps

## References

 * [HEVC Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_Efficiency_Video_Coding)
