{
  "date" : "2021-24-02",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Muhammad Umar"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "MKS File Format",
  "keywords" : [ "mks", "matroska video", "mkv format", "", ""],
  "description":"Learn about MKS file format for subtitles only created by Matroska and APIs that can create and open MKS files.",
  "linktitle" : "MKS",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "parent" : "video"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2021-25-02"
}

## What is an MKS file? ##

The MKS files are generally known as Matroska files containing subtitles only. Although the Matroska is a general file container, it avoids to keep the information of specific formats. Since subtitles are being used in some of the audio or video containers, the Matroska is paying attention to store some common subtitle formats. It helps Matroska to be consistent with the growth rate. You need to follow the points as given below to store the subtitles in Matroska:

- The “.mks”. extension will be used by Matroska file (containing only subtitles).
- **CodecPrivate** is being used to store all codecs related information that is global to an entire stream.
- Remove the Start and stop timestamps that are used in a timestamp native storage format. Instead, use the Blocks timestamp and Duration.
- You can use anything with a transparent layer, including a video.  

## Common Subtitle Formats ##

Here are some brief notes about more common subtitle formats stored in Matroska:

### Images Subtitles
VobSub subtitle format is the first image subtitle format to import into Matroska. This format is generated by exporting the subtitles from a DVD. The multiple streams in the VobSub set will need to be separated into separate tracks for storage in Matroska.

### SRT Subtitles
The SRT is the most simple and basic of all subtitle formats. It consists of four parts as given below:
 
 1. A number which indicates the sequence of the subtitle.
 2. Subtitle's appearing and disappearing time on the screen.
 3. The subtitle itself.
 4. A blank line to indicate the start of a next subtitle.
 
### SSA/ASS Subtitles
Sub Station Alpha (SSA) is a file format used by the popular subtitle editor SubStation Alpha. The SSA subtitles are widely used by fansubbers. It enables you to perform some advanced display features, like karaoke, positioning, style managements etc..
 
### WebVTT Subtitles
The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) developed the WebVTT which is abbreviated as “Web Video Text Tracks Format”. This format is being used to mark up external text track resources in connection with the HTML element.

### HDMV presentation graphics subtitles
The HDMV presentation graphics subtitle format (HDMV PGS) is a series of bitmaps and we can't say it text at all. In the other words you can say it as just a timed sequence of graphic images. To extract the information,  converting PGS to SRT is a necessary process.

### HDMV text subtitles
The HDMV text is known as the textual subtitle format used on Blu-rays. Matroska only allows UTF-8 character set When stores the TextST subtitles.

### Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB) subtitles
The DVB subtitling was introduced for standardising the transmission and display of multiple languages subtitling on TV signals. A standard subtitling format would also allow any viewer to watch DVB subtitled transmissions, regardless of the manufacturer of the transmission systems.


## References ##

- [Matroska Subtitles](https://www.matroska.org/technical/subtitles.html)
- [The Web Video Text Tracks Format](https://w3c.github.io/webvtt/)
- [How to Convert PGS to SRT](https://www.videoconverterfactory.com/tips/pgs-to-srt.html)
- [DVB Bitmap Subtitling](https://www.edgeware.tv/dvb-subtitling)
