{
  "date": "2023-05-23",
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "title": "COMPRESSED File - WordCompress Compacted Webpage File Format",
  "description": "Learn about what is a COMPRESSED file and APIs that can create and open COMPRESSED files.",
  "linktitle": "COMPRESSED",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "parent": "web",
      "identifier": "web-compressed"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2023-05-23"
}

## What is a COMPRESSED file?

A COMPRESSED file is a small size Wordpress compressed webpage generated with the plug-in, **WordCompress**. It contians a single line of code for representing the webpage that is generated by compressing HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code by the plugin. These converted COMPRESSED files are small in size that helps faster loading and transfer over the internet.

### COMPRESSED File Format - More Information

COMPRESSED files are saved as text files that can be opened with any text editor sucha s Microsoft Notepad, Notepad++, and Apple TextEdit. In addition to text editors, COMPRESSED files can be opeend with web building software sucha s Adobe Dreamweaver that is available for both Windows and Mac OS.

## About WordCompress Plugin

WordCompress plugin was used initially to compress WordPress webpages to compressed file format. The plugin is no more supported and is discontinued. It would write the webpage's soruce code to a single executable file by removing all white spaces from page's source code. COMPRESSED files are stored alongside webpage's original source code to preserve the original comments, indentations, and ohter white space included in the page's original source code.

## References

 * [WordPress Plugins](https://wordpress.org/plugins/)