{
  "date": "2023-06-12",
  "keywords": [
    "bak",
    "bak file",
    "Act! Database Backup",
    "what is a bak file",
    "how to open bak file",
    "file",
    "bak file extension",
    "extension"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "title": "BAK File Format - Act! Database Backup",
  "description": "Learn about BAK Act! Backup format and APIs that can create and open BAK files.",
  "linktitle": "BAK ACT Backup",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "identifier": "database-bak-act",
      "parent": "database"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2023-06-12"
}

## What is a BAK file?

A .BAK file also serves as a database backup file generated by Swiftpage Act!, which is a customer relationship management (CRM) software. This file includes a duplicate of an Act! database (usually an .ADF file), effectively preserving essential data such as customer contacts, company details, group information, notes, historical records, and activity data stored within the database.

## Swiftpage Act!

Swiftpage Act! is a software application used for customer relationship management (CRM). It's designed to help businesses and organizations manage their customer interactions, track sales and marketing activities, and store essential contact information. Swiftpage Act! offers features such as contact management, email marketing, calendar and task management, sales automation, and reporting to streamline and enhance customer relationship management processes.

Within Act!, all customer-related data is stored in a dedicated database file, which can be backed up at the discretion of Act! managers and administrators. This backup is especially crucial when, for instance, a business is planning to upgrade to a new version of Act!. In such cases, the IT administrator responsible for Act! might opt to create a backup of the Act! database.

These Act! database backups are saved in the form of BAK files. Typically, during the backup process, these BAK files are bundled into a [.ZIP](/compression/zip/) file. This ZIP archive not only contains the core Act! database backup but also includes associated Act! data elements, such as attached documents, document templates, report templates, and saved database queries. This comprehensive backup approach ensures that critical customer information and related resources are protected and readily recoverable when needed.

## How to open a BAK file?

To open a BAK file in Swiftpage Act! on a Windows system, you can use Act! Diagnostics. Follow these steps:

1. **Open Act! Diagnostics**:
   - Click on the Windows Start menu.
   - In the search bar, type `actdiag`.
   - Press Enter to open Act! Diagnostics.

2. **Access the Restore Database Tool**:
   - Within Act! Diagnostics, navigate to the "Tools" menu.

3. **Choose Restore Database**:
   - Under the "Tools" menu, select "Restore Database."

4. **Select Restore BAK File**:
   - You'll be presented with two options:
     - To overwrite an existing database with the data from your BAK file, choose "Restore BAK file."
     - To add your BAK file as a new database alongside existing data, select "Restore BAK file As."

5. **Follow the Prompts**:
   - Act! Diagnostics will guide you through the process of restoring the database contained in your BAK file.
   - You may need to specify the location of the BAK file and provide any additional settings required for the restoration.

Follow these steps, and Act! Diagnostics will restore the database from your BAK file, allowing you to access the data stored within it in Swiftpage Act!

## Other BAK files

Here are other file types that use the **.bak** file extension.

**Database**
- [BAK - Database Backup File](/database/bak/)
- [BAK - Microsoft SQL Server Database Backup](/database/bak-sqlserver/)

**Game**
- [BAK - Terraria World or Player Backup](/game/bak-terraria/)

**Misc**
- [BAK - Backup File](/misc/bak-backup/)
- [BAK - Chromium Bookmarks Backup](/misc/bak-chromium/)
- [BAK - Finale 2012 Score Backup](/misc/bak-finale/)
- [BAK - MobileTrans Backup](/misc/bak-mobiletrans/)
- [BAK - VEGAS Video Project Backup](/misc/bak-vegas/)

**Settings**
- [BAK - Holo Launcher Backup](/settings/bak-holo/)

## References
* [Swift Act!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Act!_LLC)