{
  "date": "2023-04-27",
  "keywords": [
    "fpt",
    "fpt file",
    "Alpha Five fpt file",
    "Alpha Five Table Memo File",
    "what is an fpt file",
    "how to open fpt file",
    "file",
    "fpt file extension",
    "extension"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "title": "FPT File Format - Alpha Five Table Memo File",
  "description": "Learn about FPT Alpha Five format and APIs that can create and open FPT files.",
  "linktitle": "FPT Alpha Five",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "identifier": "database-fpt-alphafive",
      "parent": "database"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2023-04-27"
}

## What is an FPT file?

An "Alpha Five Table Memo File" with an .fpt extension is associated with the Alpha Five database software. Alpha Five is a relational database management system that was used to create and manage databases, particularly in small to medium-sized businesses. The .fpt file format is used to store memo fields in a database table.

In the context of databases, a "memo field" typically refers to a field that can hold large amounts of text or binary data, such as lengthy notes, descriptions, or even files like images, documents, or other multimedia. Memo fields are separate from regular fields due to their ability to store more data.

The .fpt file extension stands for "FoxPro Table Memo File." FoxPro was an earlier database management system, and Alpha Five might have adopted or been influenced by its file format for memo fields. These .fpt files are used to store the content of memo fields associated with records in an Alpha Five database table. They can hold various types of data, including plain text, formatted text, images, and even links to external files.

An .fpt file is generated by Alpha Five, a database software, to overcome the character limitations of columns in DBF files. These DBF files have constraints on the number of characters they can hold within a column. To address this limitation, Alpha Five employs .fpt files to store memo data.

The key advantage of using .fpt files is that they don't have the same restrictions on character length. They can accommodate varying lengths of alphanumeric data, which includes combinations of numbers and letters. When Alpha Five constructs a table, it includes a ten-character field within the DBF file. This field acts as a reference point, indicating the location of the corresponding data in the linked .fpt file. In essence, the actual content for a given record in the table resides within the associated .fpt file, enabling more extensive and flexible data storage.

## About Alpha Five

Alpha Five was a user-friendly relational database management system and rapid application development platform. It enabled users to create databases, design web and desktop applications, and manage data without extensive programming skills. The software offered visual tools for building forms, reports, and dashboards, while also supporting scripting for more advanced customization. 

Notably, Alpha Five facilitated the creation of web applications with its intuitive interface, allowing users to design web interfaces and publish databases online. It excelled in enabling the creation of interactive applications with data relationships and business rules. While my knowledge extends up to September 2021, it's worth noting that Alpha Software shifted its focus to products like Alpha Anywhere, so I recommend checking for the latest information on their offerings.

## How to open FPT file?

Programs that open or reference FPT files include

- Alpha Software Alpha Anywhere (Free Trial) for (Windows)

## Other FPT files

- [FPT - FoxPro Table Memo](/database/fpt-foxpro/)
- [FPT - FileMaker Pro Database Memo File](/database/fpt/)

## References
* [Alpha Anywhere](https://www.alphasoftware.com/mobile-app-development-platform)
