{
  "date" : "2024-03-08",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "1 File - Unix Section 1 Manual Page - What is .1 file and how to open it?",
  "description" : "Learn about Unix Section 1 Manual Page File and how to open it.",
  "linktitle" : "1",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "identifier" : "system-1",
      "parent" : "system"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2024-03-08"
}

## What is a 1 file?

A 1 file in Unix systems typically refers to a manual page file located in Section 1 of the Unix manual pages hierarchy. These manual pages are text files containing documentation for various user commands. They are accessed through the "man" command-line utility, which presents manual page in a readable format within terminal.

## 1 File Format - More Information

The ".1" designation signifies that manual page pertains to a user command. These manual pages are structured into segments, each providing specific information such as command usage, options, and examples. The segments are delineated by standard markers, facilitating navigation and readability within manual page.

When you invoke "man" command followed by name of a command, the corresponding manual page from Section 1 is displayed, offering comprehensive guidance on how to use that particular command effectively. This documentation is invaluable for users seeking to understand functionality and usage of Unix commands, making it an essential component of Unix operating system's user experience.

Manual pages are maintained and updated along with corresponding command's development. When changes are made to a command, its manual page is typically updated to reflect those changes, ensuring that users have accurate and up-to-date documentation.

## How to open a 1 file?

You can open a 1 file directly with the `man` utility, which is the standard way to view manual pages in Unix systems. Since ".1" files are plain text files containing manual pages for Unix commands, you can view and edit them with any text editor of your choice. You can use command-line text editors like Vim or Nano or graphical text editors like Gedit or Sublime Text.

## References
* [man page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_page)
