{
  "date" : "2022-02-22",
  "keywords" : [ "ETL", "extension", "file", "format", "system", "Driver", "Windows Device Driver", "programs", "computer", "application" ],
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "ETL Files - Microsoft Event Trace Log File",
  "description":"Learn about ETL file format and APIs that can create and open ETL files.",
  "linktitle" : "ETL",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "parent" : "system"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2022-02-22"
}

## What is an ETL file?

ETL files are log files that contain event logs generated by Microsoft Operating System Kernel. These log files include application and system-level errors, warnings, and other events data. ETL files are helpful in analyzing and troubleshooting system level problems. Common problems recorded in ETL files include those generated by disk accesses and page faults. Microsoft provides two applications, Tracerpt and Event Viewer to read and view contents of ETL files. ETL files can be converted to other file formats such as [TXT](/word-processing/txt/) and [CSV](/spreadsheet/csv/) using the Tracerpt.

## ETL File Format

ETL files are saved to disc in compressed binary format to reduce disk space.

## Open ETL Files using Windows Performance Analyzer

ETL files data can be read and visualized in tabular as well as graphical format using the Microsoft Windows Performance Analyzer (WPA) application. The [Opening and Analyzing ETL files](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/test/wpt/opening-and-analyzing-etl-files-in-wpa) guide provides information about working with ETL files.

## References

* [Windows Performance Analyzer](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/test/wpt/getting-started--windows-performance-analyzer--wpa-)
* [WPA Quick Start Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/test/wpt/wpa-quick-start-guide)
