{
  "date": "2021-07-15",
  "keywords": [
    "TMP",
    "extension",
    "file",
    "format",
    "system",
    "TMP file",
    "TMP documents",
    "TMP files",
    "Temporary file",
    "application",
    "programs"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Sami Cheema"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "title": "TMP - Temporary File Format",
  "description": "Learn about TMP file format and APIs that can create and open TMP files.",
  "linktitle": "TMP",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "parent": "system",
      "identifier": "system-tmp"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2021-07-15"
}

## What is a TMP file? ##

A TMP file refers to a transitory backup, storage, or other file system generated by a software program. It is occasionally created as an invisible file and is frequently destroyed when the program is quit. TMP files can also be used to temporarily store information while a new file is being constructed.

## TMP File Format ##

A TMP file is typically made up of raw data that is utilized as a phase in the conversion process of material from one style to another. Microsoft Word and Apple Safari are two apps that can produce and use TMP file format.

TMP documents generated should, in theory, be automatically removed when the program is closed or the machine is turned off. In practice, this isn't always the case. As a result, while navigating through your program's documents, you may come across transient files that aren't actively used by the system or any other software.

###	Auxiliary memory ###

Virtual memory is used in operating systems, however, programs that utilize huge volumes of information may need to make temporary documents.

###	Inter-process communication ###

Most operating systems provide primitives for passing data between programs, such as pipes, sockets, or main memory, but the simplest method is to transfer files to a temporary file and advise the receiving application of the temporary file's location.


## Technichal Specification ##

Obtaining distinctive temporary document names is usually provided by operating systems and software programs. 
Temporary files can be safely generated on POSIX systems using the mkstemp or tmpfile library functions. Some systems include the previous POSIX (since gone) mktemp application. These files are usually found in the regular temporary directory on Unix platforms in /TMP, or %TEMP% (it is specific for log-in) on Windows machines.

When the program stops or the document is closed, the transient file generated with the tmpfile is automatically removed. GetTempFileName (Windows) or tmpnam (POSIX) can be used to create a temporary file name that will last longer than the program that created it.

## Reference ##

* [TMP - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporary_file)