{
  "date" : "2022-02-08",
  "keywords" : [ "clip file", "clip file format", "what is a clip file", "file", "clip example", "clip file extension","extension", "format" ],
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "CLIP File - Clip Studio Format File",
  "description":"Learn about CLIP file format and APIs that can create and open CLIP files.",
  "linktitle" : "CLIP",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "identifier" : "image-clip",
      "parent" : "image"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2022-02-08"
}

## What is a CLIP file?

A CLIP file is a raster image file generated by the 2D drawing application Clip Studio Paint. It is similar to Adobe's [PSD](/image/psd/) file and contains multiple layers to manage different graphics elements in the form of layers such as text, images, pen, pencil, brushes, and shapes. CLIP file format is used to design a number of different graphics types such as illustrations and animations. Clip Studio Paint application was developed by a Japanese company CELSYS, Inc. that was established in May 1991.

## CLIP File Format - More Information

CLIP file format was introduced by CELSYS to replace the original LIP file format. It stores graphical elements in the form of layers that can be edited for changes. It is also the default file format for [CLIP Studio Paint](https://www.celsys.co.jp/en/service/studio_paint/) application which is available for Windows, MacOS, Android and iOS platforms.

## Supported Drawing Types

The CLIP file format can store animations and illustrations that can be used in a variety of different types of work.

## References
  * [CLIP Studio Paint](https://www.celsys.co.jp/en/service/studio_paint/)
