{
  "date" : "2022-02-23",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "MPO File - Multi Picture Object File",
  "description":"Learn about MPO file format and APIs that can create and open MPO files.",
  "linktitle" : "MPO",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "parent" : "image"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2022-02-23"
}

## What is a MPO file?

An MPO file is a stereoscopic 3D image which comes into existence after overlapping of two 2D images. These kinds of images are created by digital cameras and are widely used in 3D video gaming consoles and 3D TV. MPO files are also known as multi – picture objects because they contain two or more [JPEG](/image/jpg/) images.

## Brief History of MPO File Format

MPO file format was developed by Camera and Imaging Products Association (CIPA). It is an international industry working in the development, production and sales of imagery devices including digital cameras. CIPA was established in July 2002 and is based in Japan. In addition to formulating worldwide industry standards, it frequently hosts events for exhibiting cameras and imaging devices.

## MPO File Format

The MPO files are generated by digital cameras and are captured by two separated lenses. These captured images are overlapped for side by side vision as a single 3D image. This image appears as 3D when displayed with 3D supporting devices. Nintendo 3DS can also create MPO files with image sizes of 640x480, and can be viewed using NVIDIA 3D vision photo viewer.

## References ##

* [CIPA Standards](https://www.cipa.jp/e/std/std-sec.html)
