{
  "date": "2023-06-15",
  "keywords": [
    "raf file",
    "what is a raf file",
    "how to open raf file",
    "how to convert raf file",
    "what is the format of raf file",
    "file",
    "raf file extension",
    "extension"
  ],
  "author": {
    "display_name": "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft": "false",
  "toc": true,
  "title": "RAF File Format - Fujifilm RAW Image",
  "description": "Learn about RAF format and APIs that can create and open RAF files.",
  "linktitle": "RAF",
  "menu": {
    "docs": {
      "identifier": "image-raf",
      "parent": "image"
    }
  },
  "lastmod": "2023-06-15"
}

## What is a RAF file?

The RAF file format is associated with Fuji RAW image files, which are generated by Fujifilm digital cameras. The acronymn RAF stands for "Fuji Raw Image File."

RAF files contain minimally processed image data directly from camera's image sensor. Unlike JPEG or other compressed image formats, RAF files are considered "raw" because they preserve all the original data captured by camera, including color information, exposure settings, white balance and other camera-specific metadata. This allows photographers to excercise having more control over editing and processing of their images.

Fujifilm consistently enhances the RAF format to incorporate features found in newer cameras. For instance, while most RAF files store uncompressed image data, the latest Fujifilm X-T3 and X-Pro2 cameras introduce the ability to compress RAF files, reducing their size and conserving storage space.

Moreover, recent Fujifilm models like the X100V offer the capability to capture images in the HDR RAF format. When the HDR setting is enabled in RAW mode, the camera captures three images with varying exposure levels and stores them together in a single RAF file.

## Common Users of RAF files

RAF files are primarily encountered by photographers utilizing FujiFilm cameras. These photographers shoot in camera's RAW mode to preserve all the original data captured by image sensor. RAF files are then typically imported into software applications, such as Adobe Lightroom, Capture One, or FujiFilm's own RAW file converter, for further editing, processing, and conversion into other file formats like JPEG or TIFF.

## How to open RAF file?

To open a RAF file, you will need image editing or processing software that supports the Fuji Raw Image File format. Here are some options:

- FUJIFILM X RAW STUDIO
- FUJIFILM X RAW STUDIO Mobile
- Adobe Lightroom
- Capture One
- DxO PhotoLab
- Adobe Photoshop through its Camera Raw utility
- Microsoft Photos with Raw Image Extension
- Apple Preview and Apple Photos

## How to convert a RAF file?

Among many other applications, Adobe Photoshop with its Camera Raw utility can be used to convert RAF files to many other formats e.g. 

- [PNG](/image/png/) - Portable Network Graphic
- [JPEG](/image/jpeg/) - JPEG Image
- [GIF](/image/gif/) - Graphical Interchange Format
- [PSD](/image/psd/) - Adobe Photoshop Document
- [BMP](/image/bmp/) - Bitmap Image
- [TIFF](/image/tiff/) - Tagged Image File Format

## What is the format of RAF file?

The format of RAF file is binary format.

## References
* [Raw image format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raw_image_format)
