{
  "date" : "2019-10-11",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "SVGZ File Format - A Windows Compressed Enhanced Metafile",
  "description":"Learn about EMZ file format and APIs that can create and open SVGZ files.",
  "linktitle" : "SVGZ",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "parent" : "image"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2020-10-24"
}

## What is an SVGZ file?

A file with .svgz extension is a compressed version of Scalable Vector Graphics (.SVG) file. It is compressed with gzip compression and contains data in [XML](/web/xml/) format. SVGZ files support transparency, gradients, animations, and filters. SVGZ files are smaller in size as compared to the default SVG files and this reduced file size helps transfer the graphics files online. Graphics designer create SVGZ files using tools like Adobe Illustrator, Corel PaintShop Pro, and others. However, SVGZ files can be generated by enabling [GZip compression](/compression/gz/) in the Apache Server while sending out the image data.

## SVGZ File Format

SVGZ, being compressed [SVG](/page-description-language/svg/), is based on open compressed gzip format that reduces the size of SVG documents. This compressed archive contains plain text SVG documents inside that are purely based on the XML file format (/web/xml/). SVGZ files can be opened by viewers/applications that conform to the SVG 1.1 specifications. SVGZ files 20-50% smaller in size than the original SVG files.

## References

 * [SVGZ by Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics#Compression)
