{
   "date":"2023-11-15",
   "keywords":[
      "lst",
      "lst file",
      "lst data list file",
      "how to open a lst file",
      "file",
      "lst file extension",
      "extension",
      "file"
   ],
   "author":{
      "display_name":"Shakeel Faiz"
   },
   "draft":"false",
   "toc":true,
   "title":"LST File - Data List - What is an .lst file and how to open it?",
   "description":"Learn about LST Data List file format and APIs that can create and open LST files.",
   "linktitle":"LST",
   "menu":{
      "docs":{
         "identifier":"word-processing-lst",
         "parent":"word-processing"
      }
   },
   "lastmod":"2023-11-15"
}

## What is an LST file?

The .lst file format does not refer to specific standardized format; rather, it is a generic file extension that can be used for various purposes and the structure of the file depends on application or context in which it is used. Here are few examples of how .lst file extension might be used in different contexts:

1.  **List Files:** In some cases, .lst files are used as simple text files that contain lists of items. For example, a file might contain list of filenames or file paths. Each line in file corresponds to an item in list.
    
2.  **Compiler Listing Files:** In the context of programming and compilation, .lst files might be generated by compilers and contain listing of source code with additional information such as assembly code, addresses and other details.
    
3.  **Playlists:** Some media players or applications may use .lst files as playlists. These files typically contain list of audio or video files specifying order in which they should be played.

## How to open LST file?

Since LST files are most plain text files so they can be opened with any text editor. In case, LST files are in binary format, then text editor will not show them properly and only display the recognizable character.

Programs that can open or reference LST files include

- **Microsoft Notepad**
- **Microsoft WordPad**
- **Notepad++**
- **Apple TextEdit**
- Any text editor
