{
  "date" : "2023-11-01",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "BKUP File - Generalized Backup File Format for Files Backup",
  "description":"Learn about BKUP file and APIs that can create and open BKUP files.",
  "linktitle" : "BKUP",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "identifier":"misc-bkup",
      "parent" : "misc"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2023-11-01"
}

## What is a BKUP file?

A BKUP file serves as a backup format employed by different software and scripts to safeguard a wide range of data types, including essential data files, word processing documents, and log files. These BKUP files are designed to facilitate the recovery of the original content in the event of an unforeseen incidents.

## BKUP File Format - More Information

When you come across a BKUP file on your computer, chances are it was generated by a program that is currently installed or was previously installed on your system. These BKUP files are usually stored within a specific folder located in the installation directory of the corresponding program.

## How to Open a BKUP File

BKUP are specific to the software that generates them. It means the format and content of the file are specific to that particular software which is creating the BKUP file. For example, cPanel and WHM uses BKUP files to store traffic logs of Awstats and the file can be restored with cPanel only.

## References

 * [cPanel Backup Files](https://docs.cpanel.net/cpanel/files/backup-for-cpanel/)