{
  "date" : "2024-03-08",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Shakeel Faiz"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "XMDX File - ExamSoft SofTest Answer File - What is .xmdx file and how to open it?",
  "description" : "Learn about XMDX ExamSoft SofTest Answer File and how to open it.",
  "linktitle" : "XMDX",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "identifier" : "misc-xmdx",
      "parent" : "misc"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2024-03-08"
}

## What is an XMDX file?

An XMDX file, used by ExamSoft's SofTest, contains the finalized version of an exam, including the answers provided by exam taker. These files are generated by the ExamSoft software after the completion of an exam.

If you have an XMDX file and you need to review or manage the exam data within it, you will typically need ExamSoft's software to open and work with it. SofTest is the primary application used for taking exams administered through ExamSoft, and it is also used for reviewing exams after they've been completed.

## XMDX File Format - More Information

An XMDX file, used by ExamSoft's SofTest, typically contains the finalized version of an exam, including the questions and answers provided by exam taker. It serves as an answer file, storing all the necessary information to review and assess the exam session. This includes details such as exam questions, the selected answers, any notes or annotations made by exam taker, and possibly metadata related to exam session itself. The XMDX file is generated by ExamSoft SofTest after the completion of an exam and is used for grading and analysis purposes by instructors or administrators.

## About ExamSoft SofTest

ExamSoft SofTest is an exam-taking application that allows students to securely take exams offline on their computers. It ensures exam integrity by locking down the device during exam and encrypting answers for submission. After the exam, results can be uploaded for grading and analysis by instructors.

## How to open an XMDX file?

To open an XMDX file, which is associated with ExamSoft's SofTest application, you typically need to follow these steps:

1. Install ExamSoft SofTest.
1. Launch SofTest and navigate to exam review.
1. Select the option to load or open an exam file, then locate and select XMDX file from your computer.
1. Once loaded, you'll be able to view the exam questions, answer choices, and other relevant information.
1. Analyze exam data using the tools provided within SofTest.
