{
   "date":"2023-11-16",
   "keywords":[
      "esx",
      "esx file",
      "esx xactimate insurance claims estimate file",
      "how to open an esx file",
      "file",
      "esx file extension",
      "extension",
      "file"
   ],
   "author":{
      "display_name":"Shakeel Faiz"
   },
   "draft":"false",
   "toc":true,
   "title":"ESX File - Xactimate Insurance Claims Estimate - What is an .esx file and how to open it?",
   "description":"Learn about ESX Xactimate Insurance Claims Estimate file format and APIs that can create and open ESX files.",
   "linktitle":"ESX",
   "menu":{
      "docs":{
         "identifier":"data-esx",
         "parent":"data"
      }
   },
   "lastmod":"2023-11-16"
}

## What is an ESX file?

An ESX file serves as compressed archive generated by **Xactware Xactimate**, a software designed for crafting insurance claim estimates; within this file, crucial information related to insurance claims is stored, encompassing details such as dates, images, policy information, damages, deductibles and estimated costs; essentially, ESX files play pivotal role in storage and organization of insurance claims within Xactimate program.

## Xactware Xactimate

Xactware Xactimate is a software solution designed for professionals in insurance, construction and restoration industries; is widely used to create detailed and accurate estimates for property damage claims. The primary focus of Xactimate is on providing platform for estimating costs associated with repairs and reconstruction after events like natural disasters, fires, floods or other incidents that cause damage to buildings.

Key features of Xactimate include:

1.  **Estimate Creation:** Xactimate allows users to create precise and itemized estimates for construction and repair costs; users can input details such as materials, labor and other expenses to generate comprehensive estimates.
    
2.  **Price Database:** The software includes vast pricing database that encompasses wide range of materials and labor costs; this helps users access up-to-date pricing information to ensure accuracy in their estimates.
    
3.  **Sketch Tools:** Xactimate provides sketching tools that enable users to create diagrams and floor plans; this visual component aids in accurately assessing scope of damage and necessary repairs.
    
4.  **Report Generation:** Users can generate detailed reports that outline estimated costs involved in particular project. These reports are often used for communication with clients, insurance companies and other stakeholders.
    
5.  **Integration:** Xactimate is designed to integrate with other Xactware products and third-party applications, streamlining workflow and improving efficiency in handling insurance claims and construction projects.
    
6.  **Insurance Industry Standard:** Xactimate has become standard in insurance industry for property damage estimation. Insurance adjusters, contractors and restoration professionals commonly use software to ensure consistency and accuracy in estimating costs.

## How to open ESX file?

To open and access ESX file using desktop version of Xactimate software, navigate to the Project dashboard and click on the "Tools" tab. Then, choose "Import" under Data Transfer. Finally, locate the ESX file by browsing to its specific location.

For users opting for online version of Xactimate software, the process involves clicking "Data Transfer" button. From there, select "Folder", click "Browse" and proceed to designate desired ESX file for opening and utilization within online platform.

## Reference
* [xactimate](https://www.verisk.com/insurance/products/xactimate/)
