{
   "date" : "2023-12-14",
   "keywords" : [
      "trf",
      "trf file",
      "trf torrentrover file",
      "how to open a trf file",
      "file",
      "trf file extension",
      "extension",
      "file"
   ],
   "author" : {
      "display_name" : "Shakeel Faiz"
   },
   "draft" : "false",
   "toc" : true,
   "title" : "TRF File - TorrentRover File - What is a .trf file and how to open it?",
   "description" : "Learn about TRF TorrentRover file format and APIs that can create and open TRF files.",
   "linktitle" : "TRF",
   "menu" : {
      "docs" : {
         "identifier" : "data-trf",
         "parent" : "data"
      }
   },
   "lastmod" : "2023-12-14"
}

## What is a TRF file?

A **TRF file** is data file generated by **TorrentRover**, software designed for searching and downloading torrents from reputable websites. This file encapsulates information about one or more searches conducted within TorrentRover, storing details such as accessed site, timestamp of search, category of content and its status; essentially TRF files serve as records of past search activities within TorrentRover, providing users with history of their torrent searches, associated metadata, and outcomes of those searches.

## About TorrentRover

TorrentRover is desktop application designed to streamline torrent-searching experience; functioning as torrent client, TorrentRover allows users to search and download torrent files from various reputable torrent sites; the application offers user-friendly interface for entering search queries, consolidates results from multiple sources and simplifies download process through support for torrent files and magnet links. With features for categorization and sorting, users can efficiently manage their downloaded content. TorrentRover also keeps history of users' search activities and downloads, often stored in TRF files, providing convenient way to track and revisit past torrent-related actions. The software's user interface is designed to enhance overall user experience, making it easier for individuals to find and download content they're looking for. 

## How to open TRF file?

Programs that open TRF file include

- **TorrentRover** (Free) for Windows

## References
* [TorrentRover](https://www.torrentrover.com/)
