{
  "date" : "2022-06-29",
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Kashif Iqbal"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "B1 File Format - B1 Compressed Archive File",
  "description":"Learn about B1 file format and APIs that can create and open B1 files.",
  "linktitle" : "B1",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "parent" : "compression"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2022-06-29"
}

## What is a B1 file?

A B1 file is a compressed archive file created with the free file compression utility **B1 Free Archiver**. It may contain one or more compressed files and folders that can be decompressed/expanded back to original form using the same B1 Free Archiver. B1 files are small in size due to compression and are easy to transfer over internet. B1 Free Archiver is cross platform and is available for Windows, Linux and MacOS platforms.

## B1 File Format

B1 file format is an open archive format that combines the best proven solutions for compression of files. It is available for both personal and commercial use for free of cost. [B1 Pack](https://github.com/b1-pack/b1-pack) is an open-source software project that produces a cross-platform command-line tool and a Java library for creating and extracting file archives in the B1 archive format.

B1 Free Archiver supports the following file formats.

 * b1
 * [zip](/compression/zip/)
 * [jar](/programming/jar/)
 * xpi
 * [rar](/compression/rar/)
 * [7z](/compression/7z/)
 * [arj](/compression/arj/)
 * [bz2](/compression/bz2/)
 * cab
 * [deb](/compression/deb/)
 * [gzip](/compression/gzip/)
 * [tgz](/compression/tgz/)
 * iso
 * [lzh](/compression/lzh/)
 * lha
 * [lzma](/compression/lzma/)
 * [rpm](/compression/rpm/)
 * [tar](/compression/tar/)
 * [xar](/compression/xar/)
 * [z](/compression/z/)
 * [dmg](/compression/dmg/) and others.

B1 files can be password protected and are compressed using LZMA (Lempel-Ziv-Markov chain Algorithm) compression by default.

## References

* [B6Zip](http://b6zip.com)
