{
  "date" : "2021-04-30",
  "keywords" : [ "BKF", "Compressed", "File", "Extension", "File Format", "WindowsXP", "Moto Racer" ],
  "author" : {
    "display_name" : "Sami Cheema"
  },
  "draft" : "false",
  "toc" : true,
  "title" : "BKF File Format",
  "description":"Learn about BKF file format and APIs that can create and open BKF files.",
  "linktitle" : "BKF",
  "menu" : {
    "docs" : {
      "parent" : "compression"
    }
  },
  "lastmod" : "2021-04-30"
}

## What is a BKF file? ##

A file with extension .bkf is related to the WindowsXP by Microsoft Corporation. All the operating systems that comprehend a catalog of files use a BKF file, that has been supported by the utility. If the data on a user's computer becomes corrupt, overwritten, or removed, the BKF file is very useful to reestablish the information on the user's system. There is also a specification of the BKF file, it is used by the Moto Racer computer game. These files comprise game archive files that are generated by the program.

## Brief History ##

The BKF file extension is a kind of Windows Backup Utility File established for the Dragon UnPACKER program by Open Source. It is very common with users in the United States and those running the Windows 10 operating system.

## Technical Specifications ##

  *  Developed by Microsoft Corporation
  *  Primary association with WindowsXP
  *  Supported by Windows NT Backup application
  *  Application Category is Archive files
  *  Format type is Binary
  *  Belongs to Backup files category
  *  Associated with BKF Viewer

## How to Open a BKF file? ##

  *	 WindowsXP by Microsoft Corporation
  *	 Motor Racer Archive

For the proper functioning of the BKF file, you need suitable software like WindowsXP. If you don’t have the proper software installed in your system, then you can’t open it. So, try to install the updated version for better functioning and results.

## References ##

  *  [FILExt - BKF](https://filext.com/file-extension/BKF)
